Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
Tellerik create compelling app experiences
across any screen with the
Tellerik platform Telerx end to
end platform. Uniquely combines industry
leading UI tools with cloud
services to simplify the entire
app development cycle Tellerik offers
everything.net developers need to build
quality apps faster. Try it
free at tellerik.com/platform that's tellerik.com/platform
From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
all weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan And announcing
show number 525. In this
episode, Scott talks with Nadia
egg ball about how open
source software gets funded. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman. This
is another episode of Hansel
minutes today. We're talking about
funding open source and how
open source gets funded with
Nadia Eric Ball. How are you?
I'm good. So you're an
independent researcher and right now
you're, you're founded by the
Ford foundation. How long have
you been exploring how, how
people and how projects get
funding Long time, I guess
over the course of a
lot of different jobs and
career trajectories, this most recent
exploration has been going on
various forums since last summer.
And I've really dived into
open source specifically, I'd say
since the last fall or
so, But you've done business
analysis, you've done product strategy.
And you were yourself a
cofounder when you were co
founding your own company. Did
you go looking for money?
Yeah, we did. We did.
And we participated in an
accelerator called 500 startups. Were
you using open source as
part of your company? Definitely.
I think that was my
first introduction to it was
using all these different open
source libraries and frameworks and
languages to build our products
and just being like, wow,
this is great. We can
build a whole business using
all these tools that are
at, at our disposal. And
from there starting to wonder
how does this, all this
stuff get supported and where
does it come from? Was
that, was that challenging? I
mean, I understand that sometimes
people think of licensing as
being challenging, but was, was
it hard to put all
of those Lego pieces together
as well? I think it
was actually pretty easy, cause
I was, I mean, I
wouldn't call myself a highly
skilled developer as a starter
calling things along as we
went. And so having a
bunch of things that I
could already use instead of
having to figure it all
out on my own, having
to build less stuff on
my own, just made it
a lot easier to get
up and going. But what
about, you know, plugging things
in technology technologically is different
than playing them in license
wide. Like, you know, we
might say this is a
great piece of software and
this is a great piece
of software, but this one's
GPL and we're not going
to use that in our
startup or, Yeah, I don't
think we even thought about
licenses back then. And I
think a lot of people,
it's sort of like a
thing I've noticed with a
lot of developers now that
I've talked to is a
lot of people aren't as
concerned about licenses or aren't
even really familiar with what
all the different ones are.
And they just think, well,
if it's on GitHub, it
must be opensource, which is
not true. But I think
it sort of reflects that
attitude that we have now
in terms of using open
source technology, where it's just,
you see it as something
that's free and available and
you can kind of pick
it up and use it.
And so there's a little
bit of a tension now,
I think, between what licenses
meant for open source and
free software, you know, back
in the eighties or, and,
and now it's sort of
like the default rate, But
isn't that kind of a
problem. I mean, we can't
just slap stuff together. It's
really kind of exciting slash
scary that you said that
the folks that you talked
to you don't give that
much thought. Yeah. I mean,
it's something like, I think
15% of GitHub repos have
a license on them, which
is not that much. And
I know there are a
lot of personal projects on
GitHub and you know, not
everything needs a license either,
I guess, but yeah, I
think it just, it reflects
his attitude of, you know,
I'm going to default to
giving something away and not
think of it as a
special circumstance. And so, yeah.
I mean, it's, I guess
it's an interesting tension in
that. It's cool to see
that culturally it's we're, you
know, we're seeing open source
is the norm, right. But
in the end you still
have the law and you
still have to answer to
somebody. And so you seem,
I think like get hub
is probably trying to figure
out how to address that
and stack overflow right now.
I don't know if you
follow their license thing. They
use creative commons. Yeah. They
use creative comments and they're
trying to switch to, I
think at MIT license last,
I was following it, but
trying to grapple with that
because yeah. Code that's licensed
under creative comments is sort
of, I guess, just like
not really used, it's sort
of a weird license. Yeah.
Creative commons doesn't really lend
it to you. It thinks
about pros, I think more
than Yeah. And there was
sort of like requirements of
attribution and things like that,
but it's yeah, it's sort
of funny, I guess. Cause
they could go, they could
have gone a really long
time and not really thought
about or address the license
issue. And I think it's
gotten to the point where
so many people are using
these things. It's like, yeah.
How do we deal with
this legally? What does it
mean? And I think there
was like, I haven't followed
what happened with Sacra flow
recently, but I know that
they were trying to figure
out like what happens to
code that was under the
creative commons license before they
can't like retroactively apply a
license. So do you have
like two different licenses on
the site and how do
people know? Which is which,
and it just gets very
complicated quickly. No one really
likes thinking about legal stuff,
but it's, you know, we're
all kind of subject to
the law, right? Yeah. Yeah.
I think what happened was
the stack overflow decided that
not public domain was an
explicit thing. People were just
assuming I found it and
that's okay. As I understand
it, attribution is required when
you use code at stack
overflow. So if you, even
if there's no clear license,
if you go and use
it, you copy paste that
you have to say, I
got this from stack overflow,
which that really right away
changes people copy pasting code.
And that went into, into
effect on the 1st of March. Yeah.
I think that's the last
time, the last thing that
I saw from it. And
it's interesting to think about
with like companies and stuff
and companies are trying to
mirror opensource practices even internally.
And so if you're a
developer and you're just used
to using stack overflow in
your own projects and then
suddenly it's like, well at
work, we can't do this
or now, you know, it's
like requiring attribution in company
code is sort of weird
and how do you deal
with all of them? So
people, if you look at
the stack overflow question, people
are going insane and it's
been downloaded to oblivion and
it seems totally reasonable that
like attribution in all things,
even if I try to
tweet something, I, if there's,
you know, if there's ever
a room, I try to
attribute. Yeah. I think it's
just, I think that that
sort of highlights that awkward
tension right now. Right. Where
from the developer's perspective, it's
sorta like, you know, code
belongs to everybody and why
should we have to think
about who to attribute things
to or not. And then
from the legal perspective, of
course it makes sense that
stack overflow or anyone else
in that position would, you
know, want to cover all
their bases and everything. And
so, yeah. I mean, it's
just sort of like a
really weird time and I
think it's, it's cool to
look at it cause it's
like we're in this cultural
inflection point, right? We're the
stuff has to get sorted
out somehow. Yeah, totally. I
think that they're probably covering
their own butts too, because
someone could conceivably, I'm just
thinking about an overzealous lawyer,
Sue stack overflow, because something
bad happened, even though they
were just the holder of
the code. One thing I
wanted to mention is that
you talked about how 15%
of GitHub repos or thereabouts
have licenses. There's a lovely
website. They put up called
choose a licensed.com. Yep. And
he did it, I think,
partially in response to that
study, I think it was
SFLC that did that study
that said it was like
15% of reposts have a
license and then 2013, I
think. And then it was
sort of like in response
to that, that get home,
put up that microsite. And
then they started offering, I
think when you create a
new repo, now they suggest
a license and just try
to be a little bit
more encouraging to help people
think it through. And yeah,
it shouldn't be the scary,
you know, there's like only
a couple of licenses that
are really commonly used. And
I think that site does
a great job breaking down
the pros and cons very
easily. Definitely. It's not exactly
a flow chart and certainly
talk to a lawyer. But
if you've got a bunch
of little small samples that
you wrote in a couple
of hours or a little
minor things and licensed them.
Yeah. So those things, those
little pieces of code that
may necessarily be the essence
of our software, but they
might be the software around
our software. You could call
that open source infrastructure and
you wrote a wonderful post
about that. Could you explain
what open source infrastructure is?
Yeah. I think to preface
that we're still all trying
to figure out what the
right vocabulary is. And so
I've, I've ended up settling
on the term open source
infrastructure for now, but I
think has sort of this
collaborative process where no one
really knows what the final
vocabulary will be, but I've
tacked on the term infrastructure
to distinguish from every other
kind of open source project.
Just to kind of point
to the way I define
it as projects that are
being used to build other
software. So that kind of
like all the components that
you need to build software
like languages or frameworks or
databases or libraries and things
like that, which is different
from say an consumer facing
app that happens to also
be open source. And so
it's interesting because there are
changes that are affecting everybody
in open source where the
definition of open source itself
is changing. I think a
lot of people are using
the term open source to
refer to anything that's open
or anything that's published, whether
it's, you could open source
of book or something. Right.
And that, I think, I
think there's just sort of
like a lot of confusion
right now. What is opensource
and, and maybe that's partially
why licenses, the license question
is getting sort of like
pushed out a little bit.
Cause people just think open
source equals open. Right. And
there's still people who believe
that who not believe, but
there's also the differentiation between
OSS and floss, you know?
Totally. Yeah. And the term
that you use really matters.
Right. So yeah, there's lots
of different terms floating around.
And so I'm, I'm particularly
interested in infrastructure as a
subset of opensource because I
think right now people are
maybe sort of like comfortable
about open source in the
sense of thinking, you know,
we, we, we like to
see the best of open
source, right? Like we like
seeing that it's a volunteer
based effort and people are
kind of like giving of
their own accord. It's a
place where creativity thrives and
it's sort of like this
self-supporting anarchic looking system from
the outside. And so there,
isn't a lot of motivation
I guess, to look deeper
and say, well, is it
really being well supported? It's
worked really well for the
past three, four decades, but
things are changing right now
too. And there's so much
more demand and pressure on
infrastructure to support like everything
else in software, because open
source is being used everywhere.
And you know, is that
infrastructure, is it, is it
reasonable to expect that it
infrastructure gets supported by volunteers
or has the time kind
of come to start thinking
about how we can support
it a little bit more
institutionally? Yeah. Yeah. You mentioned
when you were asking yourself
the question, well is an
opensource fine. Like there's no
surely there's no health problem
in open source. It's well-funded.
Yeah. And I think it's,
it's a nice image to
think about if you're not
super familiar with open source,
it's just like, Oh, I
know it's this warm and
fuzzy thing where people will
make stuff and they put
it out there and we
can use it. And you
don't really think about or
hear about the maintenance and
the hard work that goes
into it. There's I think
a little bit more of
like a user mindset now
than a community contributor mindset
where, and I felt this
like as a new developer
myself, whereas just like, you're
learning how to code and
someone tells you to download
this library or put it
in your app and you're
just like, great. I do
this thing and I can
keep building what it was.
I was trying to build
the first place. And you
don't always think about, well,
there's a real human being
on the other side of
that project. Who's, you know,
trying to keep up with
the demand. And sometimes it's
just one person. Sometimes it's
10 people, sometimes it's the
whole community, but there's there's
lot going on under the
hood. I'm finding also that
the long tail of open
source is very long. And
by that, I mean, there's
a popular, open source project
that we want to use
at Microsoft. And we want
people to use. And they
were at, at its peak
40 humans working on this
thing and it was very
stable. And then now it's
time to update it for,
you know, the new for
the new stuff. And it
turns out there's only one
person left and he's not
really interested in working on
it because he's got other
things to do. Like why
is the person who created
it two years ago? The
person who should be maintaining
it today? And gosh, that's
a, that's a, an anchor
around that person's leg. And
at the same time there's
emotions, if we go and
fork thing, right, right. Then
we've taken over their space.
So like for example, I've
got a video game for
babies. It's called baby smash
and it's for little kids.
I made it for my
son while my son is
10. Now, do I just
abandon it? Do I let
it go? Do I let
someone fork it? Well, I
really like having ownership over
it. You know, all of
these issues multiplied many times,
especially when thinking about real
software that makes real businesses
run is really overwhelming, Fascinating
tension that we're seeing now.
And we're kind of in
the age of the individual
and the individual creator where
I think like people feel
empowered to express themselves creatively,
to build up their own
brands. You know, you have
like YouTube creators, YouTube brands,
whatever. And you're kind of
like, you're an artist, right?
And I think a lot
of people associate opensource work
with that sense of artistry.
And so there's a part
of me that's, you know,
really wants to uphold that
idea of what we should
be supporting individuals. And we
should, you know, if it's
someone's project, if it someone's
baby, like, you know, you
can't mess with that. And
then on the other hand,
what's I guess, awkward about
open source infrastructure or I
guess a lot of open
source projects that differs from
say visual art is people
are using and relying on
that stuff. It's not like
you look at a painting
and you appreciate it and
you walk away, but, or
you listen to a song
and, and you know, it's
a recording, but if you're
using that stuff in your
software and you're trying to
make sure things don't break
and somebody has to be
maintaining that project. And then
yeah, it's like, it's, it's
awkward because it's personal. Right.
And if you're the author,
maybe you feel ownership over
the thing that you, you
know, so lovingly created. And
at the same time open
source is sort of rooted
in this idea of community
ownership. And there is no
one person who owns a
project and you're kind of
putting it out there and
people are helping you build
up. People are contributing and
all this stuff. And so
it's hard to reconcile. I
think that community ethos of
open source with, especially I
think for these like smaller
and more medium sized projects,
the reality that there is
like one or two people
that are maintaining it, That
is a really interesting point.
And I think it was
Noah Kantrowitz from, and I
found his post from your
post. He spoke in Portland
at opensource bridge about how
there was a time when
there was the commons, you
know, capital T capital, C
dot commons. And this is,
you know, 50% put the
work in and 50% reap
the benefits, but now it's
not unbalanced anymore. Lots of
people are reaping the benefits
and very few people are
doing the work. Totally. Yeah.
That can be really overwhelming.
So then the question, the
obvious question is why don't
we just start charging money
for open source? Yeah. I
mean, you could, I think
there's gonna be fancy guests.
I mean, I think there's
going to be some pushing
of the boundaries in terms
of what we've traditionally thought
open source means. I guess
I think you've seen some
people advocating for paid licenses
or, you know, default to
paid and then you pay
for an open source license
or whatever it is, which
are all just, they're like
interesting creative solutions. And it's
hard, I think because open
source is rooted in free
software, right? That's the movement
that proceeded it and, and
it's rooted in this feeling
of like, you know, we're
trying to give things away
for free. And, and I
think that it's even a
good thing, right. But like
that software is made free
and infrastructure is free so
that we can kind of
pick it up and use
it in our own projects.
And that's really cool because
it's just a tool, right.
And you can use that
tool to experiment and build
lots of really cool things,
but there has to be
some sort of way to
reconcile what, you know, a
very, very large software company,
for example, that can afford
to give back and versus
like a hobbyist developer, who's
using it for free. I
don't know if charging it
for directly is going to
be the answer to everything.
I'm just sort of excited
that a lot of people
are experimenting with different models
right now. I just think
that there's going to be
new support sustainability models that
we haven't seen before are
going to be emerging right
now. And like, who really
knows what's gonna win out.
Right. I'm sort of agnostic
about it. But yeah, One
of my, one of my
favorite quotes and one of
your medium posts, and I
would encourage people to check
you out on medium was
you said, by not charging
for open source infrastructure, we
protect the right of anybody
with an internet connection to
teach themselves how to code
and build. I think that's
really important. Like when, if
there's a barrier to entry,
even five bucks, that's enough
to stop a nonzero percentage
of people from making. Totally.
Yeah. I mean, you think
about like all of these
coding schools or tutorials even,
or whatever, they're all using
free resources to teach people.
And that's really cool. Like
I learned how to code
for free because I could
just download Ruby right. And
learn on my computer at
home. And that's like, we
kind of take that for
granted that, you know, someone
were to charge to use
a language which has happened
in the past. Right. That
would completely change how many
people would learn and, and,
and sort of like the
boom that we're seeing right
now with tech is partially
because we gave people all
these free tools and said,
like, go build stuff. So,
yeah. I mean, I think,
I think like really, there's
just going to be different
solutions for all different sorts
of projects and people in
different situations. And I'm not
opposed to that. I don't
think that charging can solve
all the problems, but maybe
you can solve a couple
of people's problems, Right? You
point out that not charging
is good, not only for
people who are learning, but
also for startups and Mark
Suster. The VC says that,
you know, there was a
time when half of your
money was for infrastructure and
half of it was for
coding and launching. And now
basically infrastructure software is free.
I launched my own little
startup and I just literally
an hour and a half
ago, did my taxes with
my partner, Greg and our
total costs last year were
about $2,000. And it was
basically, it was basically for
the Azure cloud time, you
know, it was like three
computers running in the cloud
for a year in three
different data centers across the
world, you know, et cetera,
et cetera, a couple of
thousand dollars for a year.
But I realized that we
didn't pay for our development
tools. We didn't pay for
our runtime. We didn't pay,
we used a bunch of
open source software. Here's the,
here's the rub though. If
something big broken one of
those open source pieces of
software, would that be enough
to destroy our little startup?
It could be, I think
it has destroyed other people's
startups. I just read one.
Gosh, I can't remember what
company it was. It was
some sort of like photo
sharing app where you take
a picture and you like
randomly send it to someone
around the world or something
like that. This is like
a fun app. Right. But
there isn't a whole bunch
of people using it. And
I was reading about it
and they said that the
reason it shut down was
because somebody was kind of
like hacking into it to
show them what the vulnerabilities
were. And so there were
like a bunch of vulnerabilities
around it and, and the
people who developed it, I
guess from my understanding, they
just didn't have the technical
expertise to understand how to
address those vulnerabilities because they
were using probably just a
bunch of open source software
and cobbling things together. And
if someone kind of points
out these issues, you're like,
I don't know, you know,
and they ended up shutting
down the app because they
were sort of like, well,
we know that there are
all these like giant scary
loopholes. We have no idea
how to resolve them. So
we're probably not the right
people to do a photo
app, which is kind of
a shame. I just want
to talk. I was at
a conference last week and
someone's going to talk about
junior developers and security in
particular. And I think like
the story goes so beyond
security or whatever, but it's,
I think it's an interesting
point that so many people
will know how to code
now that aren't don't have
it. They don't need to
have as deep of an
understanding of everything they're doing
because they're using other people's
tools. Right. And within each
of those tools are tons
of vulnerabilities or just like
tons of things that could
break and they don't understand
how to fix them or
whatever. And it's hard cause
like you're really reliant on
other people's projects and expertise
and infrastructure to make your
own stuff work. And I
think that's like, that might
be one of the best
arguments for why we need
to come together in the
tech industry and support open
source infrastructure because we're all
relying on somebody else's work
and you don't know who
that person is. You don't
know what their situation is.
We've seen a whole bunch
of other, you know, security,
bugs and vulnerabilities found in
other projects that we use.
And that's kinda scary, right?
Like it's scary that that's
not in our control and
it's in everybody's best interest
to help support that stuff
and make it better. You
know, I don't know if
this analogy works, but I'm
thinking about the relative levels
of expertise that one might
have in an industry and
the relative levels of layers
of abstraction that we sit
on top of, I think
about the fact that my
ability driving a car stops
at being able to change
my own oil and maybe
my tires. Right. But my
parents know how to take
cars apart. So they would
totally be into driving an
opensource car. Wow. So then
the question is, would I
be the right audience for
an open source car? You
know what I'm saying? So
I don't know if that's
a perfect analogy or not.
There is no perfect analogy,
but how far down do
you have to go? If
you're a plumber, then you
get to use open source
plumbing tools, but should I
be doing that to save
money? What is the, the
motivator? I think a lot
of people are using open
source and copy pasting from
stack overflow. Wouldn't you say?
It's horrible to say this,
but because they're lazy Or
they just don't know any
better. It's, it's sort of
magical, right? I mean, I
can say this as a
very junior developer, it's magical
when you like create your
own app for the first
time and you see it
online and you're like, wow,
I just did that in
five minutes. That's awesome. And
I think you had this
feeling of, well, as long
as it works enough and
people can kind of see
it and you know, that's,
that's good enough, right. I
mean, you can, you can
raise money with no backend
and just a really shiny
looking front And add a
text box that says, email
me when you go live.
Like actually right. Yeah. And
so it's sort of like,
people are just saying, all
right, it's good enough. And
now I can go on
with my idea and not
really thinking about like all
the stuff underneath and I
think it's yeah, totally. Yeah.
I mean, hopefully it is
the best example of this.
And I think, I think
it's unrealistic to expect that
everyone is just going to
like, learn how to use
your analogy. Like, you know,
how to change their oil
or go under the hood
of a car. And it's
some people sort of like
harken back to the good
old days when developers understood
all these things. And like,
wouldn't it be nice if
people understood all this stuff
and like, they're just not
going to, but I would
like to take the approach
of at least like mitigating
some of that risk by
saying, all right, they might
not do it. And yeah,
maybe it's because they're lazy.
It's because they're inexperienced or
don't understand whatever the case,
but we should, at least
probably that makes a pretty
good case for us, making
sure that infrastructure is well
supported and that the people
who are maintaining things have
the resources they need Just
in case anyone's confused. Or
if you're confused, I'm not
implying laziness on the, beyond
the part of people who
are getting started, you know,
I am a lazy programmer
and I'm also a, a
lazy person who would very
much like to get in
a car and drive somewhere
without having to learn how
to be a mechanic. So
it's okay to be lazy.
It's not meant to denigrate
anybody. Yeah. I think it's
a good, it's a good
mindset to start from is
like, just assume people are
lazy and it's not wrong.
We're all just human. Right.
And so given that laziness.
Yeah, exactly. Absolutely. So, okay.
So what are you doing
to, to change this? You
are researching this and you're
working for the POC being
supported by the Ford foundation.
Sorry. Yeah, I kind of
started out, so I just
sort of explored it for
fun without really much of
a plan in the fall.
I just kind of had
the time and the space
and the funding to talk
to a lot of different
people and kind of like
understand all these different perspectives.
And I just started writing
about it in January to
see, you know, just to
like let people know what
I was up to and
see whether anybody else cared.
Cause I wasn't sure if
anyone else cared and got
a really good response to
it and realized that there's
just sort of, there's a
great opportunity for, I think
a lot of people don't
know what's going on in
the open source world. They
don't, they they're hearing the
word open source a lot,
but they don't actually know
what it means. And everyone's
sorta like nodding and smiling,
but they don't actually understand
anything that's going on and
they want to understand. So
it was a great opportunity,
I think, just to sort
of like bring together different
parts of different tech communities
that maybe haven't been talking
to each other before to
say like, Hey, what are
the risks involved and how
do we address them and
how do we help support
people who are doing all
this really great work that
we all rely upon? So
yeah, the past couple months
I've been sorta like raising
awareness around and I'm trying
to get all the right
people in the room. And
from that we've been sort
of developing what are some
specific types of things we
could be doing? Cause obviously
like some people have called
this like a funding problem.
I don't think it's as
simple as funding. It's a
lot, if you can't just
like hand people money and
then, you know, they spend
the money and then where's
the, where's the sustainable model
in that. Right. And so
it becomes as much more
complicated question of like, how
do you support things without
funding them directly? Or when,
when is it appropriate to
fund things directly and how
can you help each of
those projects find sustainability? And
those are kind of like
any like nonprofit problem or
any like philanthropy problems, struggles
with that. Right. Where it's
like, ideally you're not just
like giving a grant, but
you're trying to figure out
how to help them help
themselves. So Right. Throwing money
at this. Right. Right. And
I think that's kind of
actually been part of the
problem when people talk about
funding, open sources, people are
trying to sort of like
say, well, can we just
like raise a whole bunch
of money and donate it
to the projects, but some
projects don't need money. Right?
Like every project is really,
really different. So you can't
just like automate that. It
is really just all about
people and some projects, even
if they had money, maybe
it's not enough money or
they wouldn't know what to
do with the money. So
I think the problem goes
much deeper than that. So
we've been talking through like,
what are some specific programs
and initiatives that we could
at least try to see
how we can positively support
open source. And so I've
been talking to a bunch
of different people about that
and hopefully developing something that
can kind of start to
move forward with beyond the
research and the writing phase.
But yeah, There's a great
quote from Yehuda Katz who
says, as a tech community,
we should treat documentation and
marketing and logistics and infrastructure
as with as much respect
as we do engineering. Absolutely.
And I think they're in
kind of lies part of
the problem because opensource naturally
draws people who love to
code. Right. And so you
have a lot of developer
talent, but I don't think
anything can fully sustain itself
on pure code. Like no
organization or sector or industry
can purely run on engineers.
Even if it's just a
little bit, you need somebody
who is thinking sort of
about like sustainability or fundraising
or community or whatever it
is. And so what I've
been thinking about is of
like, what are all those
other pieces that we need
to fill in to help
take the load off of
maintainers or just make it
easier for them to advocate
for themselves and, you know,
find sponsors or whatever it
is. I think like, like
one areas that a lot
of maintainers would love to
be sponsored by companies, but
companies aren't aware of which
projects need help and they
don't really know how to
talk to each other. So
like a maintainer might be
like, they might say, Hey
company, like, why don't you,
you know, pay me X
amount of money. And the
company is sort of like,
is this an invoice? Is
this a marketing thing? Is
this a donation? Like, we
don't really understand how to
give to you. And so
it's like, and one thing
I thought about is, you
know, how can you develop
better contracts and support documents
to just make that automated
and easy? And you see
some parallels in the startup
venture role too. So for
example, this form of investing
called using convertible notes became
popular in recent years among
startups where it's just sorta
like, it's just a much
like faster way to get,
to get investment and get
money. And as convertible notes
became a popular way of
investing Y Combinator, which is
a startup accelerator develop these
documents called the safe documents
and they use those as
sort of like a standard
agreement for, to make startups
feel safe and investors feel
safe that they're using this
like standard approved document to
negotiate an investment into a
company. Right. And so basically
it was just sort of
like, there's a whole bunch
of like legal confusion about,
you know, how do you
structure a convertible note and
whatever. And so Y Combinator
kind of stepped in and
said, Hey, here's a document
that everybody can use that
we developed. And, you know,
with a bunch of companies
and investors and got a
lot of input on and
everyone feels safe using that.
Right. So, yeah. Could you
develop something like that for
companies and maintainers that talk
to each other and just
make it easier on them?
And you put together a
website called funding O S
s.com. That's kind of a
database of who's being funded.
Who's not, Yeah. I actually
have to give credit to
Jake Bauer for that. I
actually just started as a
spreadsheet because I had already
been collecting a bunch of
projects on my own. And
I was like, I'm sure
I'm missing a lot because
I just sort of discovered
all those projects by talking
to people one-on-one and yeah,
I put out like this
spreadsheet and then spreadsheets started
getting kind of out of
hand, which I guess is
a good problem to have.
And I woke up one
morning and Jay had created
this website and was like,
here you go, just made
a simple web apps to
help just help you manage
submissions, which was awesome. Magic
opensource. So, yeah. And it's,
yeah, it's sorta just a,
I mean, it's really just
meant to be a place
to share projects and needs
and I've actually been using
it to reference. And I
talked to the people who
say, you know, do you
know a project that fits
X, Y, Z bill or
whatever, I've gone through that
list and found stuff. So
yeah, if you have a
project that needs support, whether
it's money or just like
maintainers or contributions or whatever,
it's a great place to
put it. Yeah. We're starting
to see lots of places
like that. So you've got
funding, oss.com. People should check
out. There's also up for
grabs.net, which is a up
for grabs with hyphens in
between. That's got a couple
of hundred of websites and
these are places looking for
pull requests and documentation. And
also a reminder to folks
that, again, it's not just
for engineers, you know, you
could be doing documentation, be
doing tests, take a look
at first timer is only
a, we're trying to put
together a list of open
source projects that are friendly
to people who are doing
open source for the first
time. Oh, that's awesome. Yeah.
Check out your first PR
as well. Yes, we've actually
your first PR is great
and we've been working with
them for a referral to
only in promoting them on
Twitter as well. Awesome. Very
cool. Thanks so much, Nadia,
for talking with me today.
Thanks for having me. This
has been another episode of
Hanselminutes and we'll see you
again next week. .